---
title: "Probing the Skill of Random Forests Emulators for Physical Parameterizations via a Hierarchy of Simple CAM6 Configurations"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Limon2023
date: 2023-05-25
venue: 'Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems'
paperurl: 'https://gclimon.github.io/files/Limon2023.pdf'
citation: 'Limon, Garrett. (2023). &quot;Probing the Skill of Random Forests Emulators for Physical Parameterizations via a Hierarchy of Simple CAM6 Configurations.&quot; <i>Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems.'
---
Abstract: 
Machine learning approaches, such as random forests (RF), have been used to effectively emulate various aspects 
of climate and weather models in recent years. The limitations to these approaches are not yet known, particularly 
with regards to varying complexity of the underlying physical parameterization scheme within the climate model. 
Utilizing a hierarchy of model configurations, we explore the limits of random forest emulator skill using 
simplified model frameworks within NCAR's Community Atmosphere Model, version 6 (CAM6). These include a dry CAM6 
configuration, a moist extension of the dry model, and an extension of the moist case that includes an additional 
convection scheme. Each model configuration is run with identical resolution and over the same time period. With 
unique RF being optimized for each tendency or precipitation rate across the hierarchy, we create a variety of 
“best case” emulators. The random forest emulators are then evaluated against the CAM6 output as well as a 
baseline neural network emulator for completeness. All emulators show significant skill when compared to the 
“truth” (CAM6), often in line with or exceeding similar approaches within the literature. In addition, as the CAM6
complexity is increased, the random forest skill noticeably decreases, regardless of the extensive tuning and 
training process each random forest goes through. This indicates a limit on the feasibility of RF to act as physics 
emulators in climate models and encourages further exploration in order to identify ideal uses in the context of 
state-of-the-art climate model configurations.

[Download paper here](http://gclimon.github.io/files/Limon2023.pdf)

Recommended citation: Limon, Garrett. (2023). "Probing the Skill of Random Forests Emulators for Physical Parameterizations via a Hierarchy of Simple CAM6 Configurations." <i>Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems.<i>
